Hello, 3708.
When you hear the tone, please leave your name, telephone number, and any message.
Thank you.
Hello, what's up?
Yes, Marsha Carter, please.
I'm three chief.
I'm down until the 9th of September.
Can I take a message for her?
Is this Ray?
Yes.
Hi, Ray.
This is Nick Basman.
Hi, how are you?
A couple weeks ago.
I just wanted to mention to her that I'd call back and want to check.
So she'll be back?
Yeah, she's on vacation.
She'll be back on the 9th.
Okay.
Those books I've read from you are excellent.
I find those diaries of every one.
Do you still have, I don't want you to go over there and check, but you had a bibliography of Hemingway, the Hahnemann.
Um, it's probably been sent down to Texas, because we sent all the books about books down to Texas.
Oh, you did?
Yeah.
Um... What do you mean, it's to the store in Texas?
Yeah, to our store in Texas.
Um, but unfortunately... I should have grabbed it when I saw it.
Yeah, um, they're in Archer City, and I don't think they've been unpacked or priced.
Yeah.
So... Well, it was priced, huh?
They were already priced.
Okay, I should have grabbed it when I saw it.
That was a nice honeymoon.
But you had two of them in there.
All those shelves went.
I'm kidding.
Yeah.
How come?
Well, Larry decided that he wanted to get them in Texas for some reason.
I'm not really sure.
There was a very nice selection of books on books.
Well, we bought like another 15,000 books on books.
up in Boston and shipped those down to Texas.
So we just shipped these along with them.
15,000?
Something around 15,000.
I did 550 boxes and I packed them up myself.
Who'd you get them from?
From Thomas Boss.
You bought them from Boss?
Yeah.
That son of a gun.
But I don't think, I don't know if he'd ever... No, I've bought books from them myself.
I'm curious.
Are there catalogs and things?
A lot of catalogs and a lot of old stuff.
Right.
At least he told me that's my fault.
See, he told me he had some stuff.
I'm not sure, but .
Okay, well, do you have any books on books in there now?
No, I'm afraid they've all gone.
Hmm.
Okay, no problem.
Okay, fine.
Marshall, we'll be back in September of the night.
Yeah, that's right.
Okay, thanks a lot.
Okay, you're welcome.
Bye-bye.
Talking to Norman Firing at the J.C.
Brown Library
So you're just going to tell me about this Photostat machine.
Is that a trade name, by the way?
Photostat MSP?
Yeah.
We no longer exist.
Okay.
I'll just say once again who you are.
Richard Hurley, the photographer here at the JCB.
Okay.
Photostat no longer exists, and for a while, actually, we were getting materials for years from physical high tech, and they no longer provide materials for this camera.
So it looked like
It was going to die.
And all of a sudden, just out of the blue, I don't remember exactly how it happened.
I found a company out in Long Island.
It provides the materials, the chemicals, and everything.
And it's every bit as good.
It's like corporations.
I don't know if the Photostec Corporation is still in business today.
No, I don't think they are.
But you really don't think they are.
The whole technology, they're better technology.
But why was it so important to get this particular area?
Well, there are better, but not better.
In actual fact, there is nothing as good as this canvas, because the things in the old days were better that way.
This is built about 38.
Okay.
What does it do, then, in the modern view?
The photo status archival is safe.
You can file it with a document if you wanted to.
The reason I know that is because I test the things after they're finished sometimes, and they're after they're chemical-free.
Whereas the new, they still call them photostatic things.
I mean, this is wood, right?
No, it isn't actually wood.
It's not.
It looks like wood, it's metal.
But it looks like it should go on to the Smithsonian.
Yeah, that's true.
That's true.
But interestingly enough, when I was in school back in Detroit, I knew a studio that had three of these on hand.
And we're using them all the time.
So it was very common to me.
I didn't realize that it was a dying breed.
But the new machines do a lot of sort of technically exacting amazing things, but they cannot produce a lasting piece the way this does.
I mean, is it the optics?
No, the optics are wonderful.
What I'm saying is it's always printed on resin-coated paper, and they're not cleaned very well.
They're not washed.
They're not in shape.
They're used for much sort of applications for instant sort of art layouts and things like that.
So you can put our pieces out in the sunlight, and they probably won't change colors.
But you put one of the new
I'm sure they were very happy to give it up.
That's probably the only one.
I'll try to find out.
You're going to tell me a story.
I want to show you an example of this series.
These 12 libraries cooperating to
this is before the year, or Xerox, or anything, to share sources.
So the work was photostatic, and 12 copies made, and each library got one.
Each one picked out some neat books.
It's not obviously the whole collection, so what we did is you identified... Thank you.
Thanks, Richard.
We have to move it to the new way.
But who knows if that happens when we take it to the economy.
But it's so primitive that it, you know, .
Great.
Thanks, Richard.
I should write about some rare book cataloging.
She's a cataloger.
She's running a book.
Hi.
Thank you.
You know, it's a highly tough call.
I'm just looking at some of your things over here.
Yes or no?
Glad to meet you, yes.
I'm sorry, your name once again?
G端nther Buhheim.
And yours?
My name is Nicholas Bersbanez.
It's a Greek name.
E-A-S-B-A-N-E-S.
G端nther has a Ph.D.
in botany, and he's brought over from Germany by the Hunt Library in Pittsburgh, which is probably the greatest botanical library in the States where it's G端nther.
G端nther worked there for a number of years.
with their botanical collection, and they sort of, the catalogue for them was sort of declined, and people was looking for work someplace else, and we were lucky that we had botanical things?
Yes, we have some, but of course, you see, in the period where we are collecting up to 1800 for most of itself, and then I cut a little bit later, but so on the
There we have some of the standard works in the natural history, yes.
So, of course, we don't have any work which, among other things, treats plants of the world, or animals of the world, but the special ones in America, we try to take it.
We don't have them, they are really young.
So, we say the Hunt Library is a Lawrence Barber 19th century collection?
Do you know about the Hunt Library?
The Hunt Family and so on?
It's very well documented.
You look into it as a kind of Pittsburgh family.
Hunt Botanical Library, yes, because the Hunt Library is the building which is the house's comic and mansion.
It's huge, they say, yes, the Hunt Botanical Library.
All the holdings that you see in the two volumes, the Botanical Library.
which you see in the holdings.
But Mrs. Hunt was interested in the history of agriculture and gardening.
Mrs. Hunt, is she a collector?
Yes.
I really need some women collectors.
Yes, I was.
She was an avid collector since her youth she started.
And of course, it didn't work in generic and eminent industrialist.
She was a collector in the gallery, though, is that right?
Yes.
She was kind of like the Estelle Dottini at the...
Yes, Pittsburgh.
Yeah.
What was her first name?
You remember?
Rachel.
Rachel McMillan, master of science.
You remember, huh?
Yeah, sure.
Because that's the first name of the language.
And Mrs. Simon, she collected from her youth even before she married, but then when marrying a rich industrialist, of course, didn't feel so.
getting a present, but also women of this class want a new fur coat, and she got a new offer, or other... Is this part of the university, the Han Library?
It's part of the university?
Yes, yeah.
But it's similar to life here, yeah.
Independently... Independently...
Say that again?
That's very important.
I didn't know that.
As we're walking, just for the sake of my typist and my memory, this is we're walking through a breathtaking way of wonderful... I really shouldn't be on there.
Are those elephant folios, would you say, or...?
Not elephants.
No, they're very large folios.
Elephants are probably twice its height.
Ideally, I think heavy atmosphere and so on should sit on cases like this, rainer cases.
You don't have a treasure room here, but this comes close.
This is, I've got to say, these are some weapons just there.
What generally do you have in this room, would you say?
This is three-quarters of the collection is right here.
It's a small collection.
A lot of them are upstairs.
I'll show you in the reading room.
Is there quite something of random interest out to me?
Well, you don't call it bindings, per se, do you?
Not that I'm terribly interested in bindings, but I'm not, I believe.
Well, yeah.
I mean, a binding collection has a binding collection.
No, you don't collect bindings with bindings.
A whole library has always been a very substantive collection.
That's an important point that is .
Yeah, this library was certainly the first library to be organized around conceptual lines.
The first American library?
The Air Book Library.
John Carter Brown... The first American rare book collection.
Yeah.
It really is the first American rare book collection to be institutionalized.
When John Nicholson was created in 1900,
the Morgan, the Folger, the... They weren't even close to the system.
No, they weren't even, exactly.
Much later, and the Huntington... AAS might give you an argument on that.
Well, that's different.
That was a society.
I was going to say the Mass Historical Society, too, but that's a society.
But they're different.
They're historical societies, but they're... They also... The AAS is just the opposite of this person in a way, because that's an imprint collection.
They collect books that are printed in America.
That's a collecting concept, not a historical concept.
But we collect books related to the Americas.
That's a research concept.
We don't care where the book is printed.
Nor, if you're doing historical research, do you care where the book is printed, not the book that's got some information.
So that's a major difference.
I'm not saying a word, but what you're saying is very important.
The Newberry,
which actually opened, I think, in 1896 or 1894, started as a general public library.
Fascinating history on the Newbury area.
And then it gradually became a kind of web-book collection.
Well, it acquired other collections.
Right.
So Newbury was not a collector.
No, that's right.
He wanted to serve the public and open this, like, a public library.
Well, all his ears died.
I mean, have you ever seen how the Newbury came into being?
That's a fascinating story.
Let me see.
When John Carter Brown began collecting in the 1830s and 40s, he began as a typical wealthy gentleman collector.
He looked for beautiful books.
He looked for rare books, Shakespeare folios and Bibles.
He was the Bible collector, right?
No, I mean, we had this wonderful Bible collection, this Popatensian Polygon Bible.
Didn't he kind of go against Lennox for a lot of Bibles, though?
They both began to collect Americana, but by 1846 was when he decided
He gave up, he was collecting, he's got an Aldean collection, I think I mentioned that to you.
Is that something you'll show me, I hope?
Yeah, books printed by Aldus Manusius, who was a great artist.
Aldean's been wonderful.
Well, he was, you know, the one that found as a modern printer.
He did a lot, he was a great printer, he developed a kind of type, he was the first person to print books in this sort of Apollo size that you can carry around in your hands.
He was the first person to realize that
all the different Latin classics were in manuscripts and that they ought to be preserved.
But then John Carter Brown changed his thinking and decided to collect books related to the Americas.
That was a big thing.
That meant he no longer cared whether the book was beautiful, whether anybody thought it was rare or not.
Any humble pamphlet that had
And as you say this, you're holding what you were describing as a humble little privilege.
Right.
But any, you know, this is 1632, but any word in it that relates to America made it valuable to him.
So what do you suppose, is there anything written as to what prompted this change in philosophy and focus for him?
Well, he just did it.
Obviously, we know he did it.
Yeah, I don't know.
I don't know.
It was a tremendously prescient, and it began to collect hemispherapy.
It was something else that people were sort of interested in, like Peter Force.
He was interested in collecting documents related to the history of the United States.
And where was he from?
There's something called Force's Tracks.
You'll see it's a big reprint, big, huge, long reprints of the early American documents.
Very, very valuable, because he can copy down things
to the Constitution and the early states and whatnot.
But John Carter Brown included everything from Hudson Bay to Huego, and without regard to... Origin.
Right, origin, where the book was printed, whether it was beautiful or not, or anything.
Language was nine elements of it.
Yeah, exactly.
And he collected both things printed in the Americas, early Mexicans.
Peruvian and British North American and European books about America.
Do we have the field of himself that offer a career?
Well, there are a few other people who've got into it as well.
You know, there must be this piece by Bill Reese that was in the American African Society.
I actually have the piece.
I have the piece that he read from at the AAS.
I went up and I said, I need a copy of this.
I said, yeah.
I was there when he delivered it, and it was published in the... So he talks a little bit about it.
And then there are... Tom Adams is a good person to tell you about the history of American... So it is interesting that this is the first library of its kind.
And I wonder, did this come about as any kind of a mandate from the Brown family, or was this just something that evolved business day into that?
I mean, he, I can't, I mean, so we dated in 1846 when he made this decision, and then he got done.
I mean, the decision to institutionalize the library.
But that was his fun decision.
Can I just take a look at some of these things here?
You see, I thought you don't want to.
I don't mean to say that, but you know how this is important.
The library changed direction.
Okay, that's important.
I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
What's the name?
It's the John Russell Breitler poem, John Carter Brown, November 10th, 1863.
And the significance of that was an expression of John Carter Brown as the line of the Bible.
And that's a major role he plays in, not only in helping to build a library, in the tabloid and in education,
Sorry, you just made one statement, but in context with Bartlett, there's always a great collector, and how do you say it?
Well, I just think that it's somebody else.
There's always an alternate case, that is, you have a collector, a wealthy person, but often he's got somebody else.
Humphrey Warnley, for instance, and have you ever heard of Humphrey Warnley's diaries?
He was the Duke of Oxfords.
He was the same.
That's right.
He was just somebody else.
Somebody else also includes booksellers.
I've interviewed many, many very interesting booksellers.
John Nicholas Brown of the class of 1885 who gave this library with its building and endowment
to commemorate the name and work of his father, John Carter Brown, of the class of 1816, from whom he inherited, with the library, love of knowledge, devotion to historical research, and appreciation of beautiful things.
That's wonderful.
Speak to the past, and it shall teach thee.
I love that phrase.
Tom has got not only his own memory, but the family memory, but the fact that Tom Adams' father was a rare book librarian, and he ran a rare book library.
Where was that?
I said, no, I was at the John Fratergown Library.
I was never a librarian.
I just ran a library.
He ran the library.
It was a very unconscious copy of the John Fratergown Library.
And it was to Michigan.
It was an alternative library.
And he was chosen for that job by the first white girl, John Carter Brown, a man named George Parker, didn't you?
So I grew up in that.
And John Brown called J.C.B.'
's daughter.
I have a sense then that there's never been a day where you haven't been influenced by the love of books.
I've been surrounded by them all my life.
We were talking earlier, Norman and I were talking about you have a competition here for book collectors, for undergraduate book collectors, and I said, this is very interesting for me because generally I'm talking to the accomplished, mature, successful book collectors, you know, and I really haven't paid any attention to the developing of the emerging collectors.
In this kind of point,
The book collecting was, when the whole business of profit loaded came into collecting, I began to lose interest in these masters.
These guys who, and there were dealers like Johnny Fleming and others who were, and there are now thousands buying old books as an investment.
Anyone who does that, I have absolutely no interest in.
They're not collectors.
The gradation of the people who collect books is a part of their social strategy.
They do it to climb the social ladder.
And boy, there are a lot of those out there.
And there's a number of forms of rather display recollection.
I respect the collections and I respect the people.
Great.
This is the first time I've had that kind of a... Let's talk a little bit about, you did mention that you have always been surrounded by books.
Books have always been a part of your life.
This is a job, a profession that you grew into.
Well, I tried to avoid it.
Is that right?
After the war, when I got out of the Navy, I tried to go to law school.
I tried it for one year.
My father wasn't all right because he asked me about that.
So I went down to Philadelphia and went to work and arrived and kept to Philadelphia, which was then being run by the sea riding in Philadelphia.
That's been a year there.
getting my hands here.
It was long before Eddie woke up.
I didn't quite know where that was.
Did you talk to him about this?
I might add, Eddie's his pictures are coming with a certain amount of hyperbole of them.
I love everything.
He's a really wonderful guy.
And the job he did there is unbelievable.
But he wouldn't have gotten it down there as soon as it happened.
He told me some stories, though, about finding things that had been lost there.
I mean, did people have forgotten about?
Oh, come on.
Did you ever tell you about Barney Chesnick?
No.
Barney Chesnick was a guy who was running a library when I was working there for just a year.
Barney knew everything was there, and Barney told anywhere a lot of the stuff was.
You'll find him mentioning Barney twice in his annual report.
Barney was a guy who held that fight together from the time where he went to work at the age of 14 on the little Bernard Samuels, when the library company had two buildings, one of the one up on Locust Street.
Then they went broke, sold the building up at the
up in Loughlin Street, moved all of the folks down to the basement of the Broadway Christian building, and one for ten, really, again.
And then, of course, Barney, he was a young assistant, he went off to war.
And he came back, right back to where he went to college.
The entire education was placed in that building.
The Free Library took it over and administered it, and explained that you'd one wing of it as a branch library for the Free Library in South Philadelphia.
But Barney had to run that, too.
But long back, right after the war, while some of the more responsible Philadelphia trustees, responsible for the Philadelphia trustees and unusual animals,
decided that they ought to do something about it.
And they brought into the free library a man from the Spanish, titled Assistant Librarian for Research.
His name was John H. Howells.
He was a teacher who taught history through Mr. Delaware, a very, very flamboyant wealthy.
And Jack had some responsibility for
trying to stir up the search interest in the collections of the library company.
He thought that Austin Gray had been a guy just before the war.
He had been a librarian in the early of the 1930s, a former history professor at Game Bar.
Anyway, I'll get off on the set.
As the trustees began to realize that they needed to do something... The trustees up here?
No, the trustees of the library came out now, who had hired the library to run the place for them.
About that time, the doctor died, and the plane did not get along with the film.
He made that very clear.
In fact, he's written a little pamphlet about that, but he still doesn't know whether or not he's going to publish it.
Part of his book is he wasn't allowed to publish it.
He still wants to publish it.
He's being advised not to.
It's very hostile.
Anyway, about that time, the president was in court, the lively company.
a man named Nicholas Fiddle-Waylock, who was also an assistant in the Historical Society.
But the first time they had a president of the board who really understood the significance of research.
And Eddie was brought on board first as a consultant.
And then they had a blue ribbon panel of experts come down and surveyed the situation.
And now that grew the decision to separate.
And, of course, at that point, the bonanza of the parking lot, the old building on the local street was an empty lot.
It was a parking lot.
And at that time,
And the economy was coming back to where the parking garage, and there suddenly had some income.
And that was the thing that made it possible.
They had to go down first as the curator, and then there was a white bear.
But I was there for it.
during the period in the free libraries of school.
Everybody keeps in a Philadelphia collection.
Very, very interesting book job.
A lot of very interesting good people.
Not very many people in the Boston area do.
That's true.
What I mean from... Yeah.
Anyway, so you came to... A year there, I went out to the University of Pennsylvania, which had just opened a book collection under the...
with a curate of a man named John Alden, who had been... He was one of Bill... Bill Jackson used to have a hire, a personal assistant.
He would keep the two years, and then send them off, and send them training.
And John was the first one of those people, and he was Bill Todd.
Bill Todd of Texas, and I don't know, hopefully.
Roger was the last of them.
No, Sidney I... Roger was the last of them.
John had started his career, I used to be a British missionary home, where he ran into my dad, and dad got him started in rare books.
He then went to the library for one year, and then went up to the hotel in an open university.
He stayed for two years with Jackson.
and stayed out for another couple of years on the global campus, and then came down to start the real book collection at the University of Pennsylvania.
By that, they've been segregating the real books and building orders for them.
That in itself is an hysterical phenomenon, which I can't tell you about.
At some point, a lot of institutions were right after the war.
It started after the war, started sprouting.
You think so?
Oh, yeah, certainly all the money was being poured into the library, you said.
That's a rare book?
Oh, that's a good thing.
A lot of these libraries, rare books were prestiged, right?
After all, Harvard had to hold the library, because that was the big thing.
Even Yale had a rare book room in the store.
I know books became a great prestige stage of the libraries during that era of gross, and every goddamn teacher's college became a university that had a research library to try to have a book collection.
Well, how do you feel about that?
I think it's unnecessary.
You think so?
Because most of what they would go out and collect were press books.
I mean, the first thing, one of these little
Well, what is it like?
Well, press books.
They're prestigious.
They're pretty to look at.
No one ever reads the books, but they're expensive.
And of course, how do they support scholarship, which is an institute?
Well, the scholarship is to support people studying the graphic arts, which is that what you call a major university.
Well, it wasn't just Harvard.
You had the Jason Brown here.
Well, that's an entirely different phenomenon.
I'm talking about what happened after the war.
Right, but you said there was only Harvard.
Harvard was the only one associated with a university.
JCB belongs to the corporation of Brown University.
No one had already touched on that, but I wonder if you could just elaborate on that a little bit, the significance of that.
He never got caught up with John Farver Brown, and John Lichtenstein was very clear, he did not want his library to get in the end of librarians.
That's fascinating, isn't it?
I wonder why?
Because of the damage they do to books.
Have you ever read my father's book?
No.
Well, you've got to.
Librarians with enemies of books.
And I wrote a supplement to it.
Your father wrote that?
Yeah, that's a famous book.
And I wrote a supplement to it 30 years later.
I know that book.
It's a little article.
It's good for me.
And I wrote a supplement to it, which appeared in the College of the Social Libraries about 20 years ago, called Librarians, Enemies of Books, with two question marks.
Well, why do you suppose that there's John Nicholas now?
I mean, was this insight in his part?
Is this perception in this part?
You look that way.
That was at the time of the growth of the Carnegie Company.
The library with the university, the people, free access to everything.
The book would be used up in the service of society.
The whole attitude is books were going to be used up.
Well, not these things, I think.
That's really very significant, yeah.
That's the whole, that's the basis of the whole concept of the report.
The difference between the Newberry, the Newberry, which you know about in 1900 and the John Carter Barre library is exactly that.
The Newberry was supposed to be a public library.
It's grown toward it.
Just as a library company was a public circulating library, when JCD is a model, after which all of these others... You named a library of this company, I could show you the connection, but we were the first.
Very important, isn't it?
Conceptually, it's very important.
The concept that Don Nicholas Brown had,
and was given form by Judge Parker when she formed his years between 1895 and 1914, when he was here, which he then took to the newly opened treasure room in the Widener Library, which was the first hit.
But we've got in our file documents.
Mr. Folger sent his people up here.
Mr. Hunnigan sent his people here.
See, the research library, which is totally independent of any academic institution, is really basically unique to the United States, isn't it?
No, you really don't find it.
No, that is exactly what the British Library is.
They circulate this.
There was a bottle of their research.
You can't take a book out of them.
When I was there, it took me two hours just to get it settled.
Exactly, yeah.
They're research libraries.
That's right.
The Bibliotech last year.
But that's because, you see, here's a national library.
Well, no, that's because European libraries were always closed entities.
But the British Library does get support from the British government, I believe.
Is that correct?
Yes, but that doesn't make anything about the basic policies.
uh so they may get support from the british government but a support function as a research library not as a public circular i understand that but my point is
This developed.
I mean, you had people like Morgan and Huntington and Folger and Brown and the A.S.
in its own way.
In its own way.
I mean, they're not real books per se, but it is a... Oh, yeah.
It is a, yeah.
Comes along and begins to evolve into what it used to be.
What's the time of some kind of downline or something?
Of that building, is it?
No.
up in the same time our building was built, and the man who built it came from the Rhode Island historical society.
Paul Spickman grew up in Providence, knew the young kind of Brownrider.
It was his model.
But I think when we're talking about librarians, the enemy of books, this apparently is a philosophy that
That was not a philosophy.
My father loved to make trouble.
And all that was, was the old story of the army sergeant and the recruit, even with the mule, you know that story?
And the recruit was trying to get the mule to do something, and he was cursing at it, and the army sergeant came up to him.
Do you understand that's a jibble?
intelligent animal.
That's not the way to get that human to do anything.
Let me show you how to do it.
It picks up two before it hits him over the rear.
I used to do that.
Oh, I had to get his attention.
I had to get his attention.
So you suppose that the Browns
Obviously, they got a sense of the value and the importance, and I'm not talking the monetary value of their items, but they, well, many darn hard of writing began with collecting under the influence of the Roxburgh sale.
And Nichols, I'm going to explain to you that whole concept of the gentleman writer that's also collecting great books.
And he, when he's up,
We went to England, began collecting books.
It was collecting all deeds.
It was a classic, very good collection of all deeds there.
It was probably the first one such collected before the manuscript.
But taking that concept of being a collector, in contrast to, say, Thomas Jefferson, or Samuel Pepys, for that matter, or the Mathers,
for whom the books were tools to do something else.
They had this, I don't know if you've ever articulated this, but they had this concept of these as being physical objects that were important in and of themselves.
And the drama that was John Carter Brown was transferred that concept to a bunch of grubby little books.
Why wouldn't he have contented himself in with copies?
Because it was a physical object.
Why would he have collected a painting if he'd contented himself in?
We haven't seen the whole concept of a first edition as a fairly recent phenomenon.
I mean, the value.
I mean, Peeps traded in his first folio for a horse.
He was not a collector.
But there are other collectors who, even in his own time, the concept of Ed's Pavilion was way, way back.
That's not a reason.
Just abuse yourself of that.
It was like Jefferson.
His attitude toward this film was to be used.
It's really true that the first edition is saying,
is partly a market concept, which is one of the reasons why at the JCB we're interested in the 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, and 10th edition.
That is because if you're collecting books with a research value, you want to get a comprehensive collection.
You never know when a scholar walks in, we want to see the 1653 edition.
He doesn't care about the 1632.
So we don't, first edition to us doesn't mean anything more than the 18th edition.
The idea is to have everything.
Whose responses do you think about that?
That's right, because the market... Well, it reflects on what you were telling me earlier.
I said, which books do you put in the most secure room?
And you said, we make no distinction between which books are more rare than others.
And that's a philosophical... Once a book comes in, regardless of how much we pay for a book, once it enters that building, it loses its price tag.
But that's a philosophical... Well, I mean, in other words, it's also true.
The book's never going to be sold again.
It's never going to be sold again, you know that.
Well, it may be, if you get a better copy.
Yeah, but you keep duplicate copies?
No, we've lived off of it.
We've lived off of the depression.
We didn't have any money.
That's a good reason to try to get things in extra condition and so on.
We always trade up condition, but not necessarily.
We will keep more than one copy of a book.
A book that allows the condition, but it belongs to George Washington or somebody.
We keep that, too.
But in general, we're not trading.
We're not thinking about resale.
What you pay for it is incidental, and what you have it.
What matters is...
The great satisfaction comes from somebody walking into the library or writing to the library, whatever, and saying, do you have that?
And you say yes, and no one else has it.
And now you're my last best hope.
Exactly.
Never assume we don't have anything.
We may not, but never assume it.
But on the other hand, your collection is compact.
That is because of the intellectual structure within which it was done.
Explain that.
That's important.
You know, listen, this is the core of book collecting as opposed to accumulation.
Because, John, and I, I've articulated, but I've, in, in following back to history, then I'll be right back to John Carter Brown, his behavior, his mind, and everything, and clearly.
We had this concept that the printed record of the discovery and exploration and settlement of the new world was a phenomenon that was all recorded, fortunately, because of what happened after the invention of printing.
I got it.
This is why...
uh the barracks and everybody else is irrelevant they were here but nobody didn't make any difference it was the fact that columbus came back before it was printed and word was spread out over europe and that that within that structure the five books relating solely to that to that within that conceptual structure now he also
Well, he drifted out into manuscripts once or twice.
He stayed away from manuscripts.
Well, this would probably win ships to him.
But that's a decision, too.
I mean, almost inevitably, a collector does gravitate towards manuscripts.
Well, no.
Mr. Clemence had to because the John Carter Brown Library is already better than the Clemence Library.
This is the thing that sets the Clemence Library aside apart from it, because it has all the bridge headquarters papers and all that stuff.
But the intellectual structure, you see,
It's very rigorous.
It is very flexible within that structure.
It's the exact opposite of the humanities research section.
Say again, I'm sorry.
The humanities research section is notorious in the other way, where they are interested in buying anything.
I don't know how, even the finding key, I don't know how you can have only so much money in your budget.
How do you decide it in the medieval manuscript and a Joyce letter?
You know, just all over them, all over the place.
They started as the treasure rooms, as the treasure rooms of the libraries.
Of the university.
Of the university's libraries.
And it reflects a lot of separation here, isn't it?
And therefore it reflected the entire collective scope of the library.
And the university and the curriculum of the university.
But it reflected what was in the library.
I mean, generally speaking, you talked to her earlier.
I'm a special collections guy at a university, and people say, well, if I have a mandate, a general working mandate, well, I should support the curriculum.
No, you don't do that.
I'm a punk girl.
We create curriculum.
See, that's a fundamental thing.
That wouldn't happen if you were a punk of the university, would it?
See, that's the battle.
But the people of the Houghton and the people of the Bynasties always had with these institutions, they always think that those lobbies ought to be out supporting the curriculum, supporting the general overall collecting policies.
For instance, under Jackson at Harvard, under Wingship at Harvard, followed by Jackson, followed by Bob, and again under John T. Tinker, followed by Lieber.
They wanted to go the route of excellence, which is real.
It's the best library by time in the world.
And Bill Jackson's great passion was the best library.
So he chose certain areas to build.
So the Harvard's collection in those areas were the best library.
And he didn't get a deal.
He was one of the most remarkable ones.
I mean, they doubled their holdings during this time.
No, but the quality of that.
was the quality of what Bill got.
I mean, he... Did he have such a great eye, or did he have great support?
There's always plenty of money.
Well, not there, but you see, it wasn't until recently they had a friend's organization.
Bill Jackson didn't need a friend's organization.
He had his friends.
Roger Houghton.
Roger cries now.
Roger says he doesn't have any money.
He said, we don't have a biography.
Well, a biography doesn't have a lot of money either.
But to get back, those libraries, the libraries that they grew out of a university, the search library,
the primary responsibility for the faculty and the students tried to emulate us.
And for places like the Grandfather Brown, the Antiquarian Society, the Folger, the Huntington, the Clemens, our primary responsibility is the field of scholarship we have taken as our responsibility.
That's our primary responsibility.
The reader comes separate.
Nobody's ever said that.
He's a second guy.
He's a very important guy.
But he comes second.
The collection comes first.
If you have anything, is that the first duty is to collect and preserve posterity.
any publication, any printed work related to the history of the Americas before about 1830.
And if you ran out of money totally, you would lock the doors and preserve that collection.
So it's there five hundred years from now.
Then the second goal is the promotion of research.
Which you do collectively.
Which you do as a selectively punctuation thing.
You don't want to come in there, there's a fellowship program, and these people are selected.
They apply.
They apply, and they're reviewed, and they're selected because of their qualification.
Now this is not open, I gather, to the students.
The library is open to any one of these students.
The library is, how do I put that?
The library is, how do I put that word?
No, no, no, no, it's a need for the materials.
Need is a serious word.
No, but I had to work today, and I wanted the machine to pick that up, and that pay attention.
The library may be used, but need is a need to do so.
And what did you say, need what?
I said, but need is a serious word.
May be need.
They have no right to use it.
Leaders have no rights.
Using that library is a privilege.
I love that.
That's true of any... I think that that's the misconception that so many American librarians... Everybody has a right to use this.
I think any librarian has to operate that way.
You can't.
You have to... Well, listen, I'll shut the subject for a second.
I often, people ask about this often, and I just think, in order to get into the Rockefeller Library, which is the Brown University General Library, you have to be a Brown student, or a faculty member, you have to show a card, an ID card.
That library exists to serve the Brown community.
And if you're an outsider from anywhere, you can't get into the Rockefeller Library, because it exists for the students.
We're just the opposite.
Brown Library is open to anyone in the world.
Who needs to use it?
So people, if a person comes in off the street and says, well, I'd sort of like to look at this book, but why do you want to see it?
What is your... Demonstrate.
Demonstrate that you are engaged in a serious...
I asked you earlier, when you were showing me around your beautiful building house, and I said, well, how long will it take to fill this up?
And you said, well, it'll really be sufficient for a long time.
We don't acquire a lot of things.
I have to get the number.
400 a year.
That's all.
I do that as an individual.
Someone's going to say, hey, I have a collection.
That's where I want my collection.
This would be a collection in New York.
And so you may get a collection of 5,000 things overnight just because you've got that new building.
But generally, our acquisition budget and the market prices and the fact that we have so many things.
I mean, every dealer's catalog we get,
90% of the advertising that would be in our field, and his books related to the Americas, which were 1840, and I don't know what he did.
I have a book catalog.
I never, if I saw the deliverer book down in American or something, I didn't even waste my time to do that.
I go to economics, or science, or...
There's a little bit of arrogance there, isn't there?
A little bit of arrogance there.
You never know.
I mean, there might be something new.
No, because I know how they're classified.
You know, it's close.
No, no, I don't know how they're classified.
I mean, booksellers have this long-standing pattern.
And Americana...
It was defined by our catalog, our concept.
So that's what they use.
You define America.
You know, I'm talking about why we didn't.
But so what I did, what my predecessor did, was keep pushing our financial funders.
Because I would, as Americana, it was basically discovery and exploration.
A new catalog by an American orphan or something.
But what I would...
but he went out and bought an enormous collection relating to the Scots Darien Company.
This was in 1904.
Now, the Scots Darien Company was an attempt on part of a bunch of Scotsmen to establish a Scottish colony in America.
They did it down in Darien, down in Panama.
They set up a company.
A lot of people invested in it.
They sent out
expeditions and colonists, and then there was a settlement, a few years of Spanish, and the Spanish drove them out and they all died of disease.
But there was this enormous thing called the Scottsdaleian Tripoli, and it was a lot of Scottish people invested their money, and it went bust.
It was great for him.
It was one of the reasons only for the Union of Scotland and England, because Scotland was great.
Now, Winship bought everything related to that.
Not just the thing of having to do with the policy.
on the financial and political relationship between England and Scotland.
It didn't even mention a man.
And we had a great collection.
He did this in 1940, because this is something that happened as a result of the discovery of Iraq.
That's fascinating.
So in the past year, somebody was here using that collection?
I'm so sorry.
In the past year, somebody was using that Darien collection this year, and he told you about it.
Let's call that Darien D-A-N-E-A.
D-A-R-I-E-A.
Well, more about red, red, red, red, red.
Anyway, Cortez didn't do it.
He was a Zara and a Peek and Darian.
That's right.
Saddle and a Peek and Darian.
It's Keith.
The scholar said it was the best collection in the world, the Darian material.
So a lot of this is targets of opportunity.
You don't really know what you're collecting.
You do?
Good job.
My project has a job to know.
But research is going to be 10 years from now.
How do you know that?
And I'm paid to me.
My predecessor was paid to me.
Use your intelligence and your imagination.
Why did I come up here?
70 years ago.
So that was perception on his part.
When I came here, when I came here,
But JCB was limited to the year 1800.
So that made it possible for me to collect West Indian firms.
Now we had a good West Indian firm in the 1800s.
But I said, OK, for the West Indies, we're going to use our terminal data.
The abolition of slavery in the West End is, which is 1832.
That meant I could go out and buy in large quantities of very expensive and enormous English anti-slavery literature of the late 18th century to the 19th century.
In the 19th century, in all the early Western Union schools, I got an one of the Acts,
and I would make a place in Jamaica.
I bought that in 1960-something, or in 1980.
I'm paid to know that that is something we're bought.
This is long before black studies appeared.
So when
The kids began to come around and we wanted to study that stuff.
In those days you would go to the prime Cadillac or the main library, you'd find nothing under that circuit.
Negro Black.
They came in to me and I said, look it, sit down with that chronological path and go to it.
Any book, without any book relating to the West Indies,
So, Brett Jones, who made you figure here, did his doctoral dissertation on the Maroons of Jamaica.
He discovered it now.
Why?
Because I brought that.
You know what I mean?
We're paid to know about these things.
And you still have a cutoff here around 1830 or something like that.
Yeah, we think at the end of the colonial period.
The Caribbean is special to go to 1834.
But in fact, what I would like to see in something we're really doing to have a complete comparability across the entire hemisphere, as much as possible others.
For British North America, we were always connected to 1800, through the American Revolution, through the establishment of the Constitution, and maybe a little bit past.
It seems to me that you ought to be able to use the John Carter Brown Library of Spain, all the revolutions for independence in the New World, and the establishment of the first constitutions.
So like ours in 1787, the first constitution in the Shulay is 1818, and then it's around 1812.
I'm not using chronology so much, but actual phases of political development.
I'd like to have a conference on the revolution for independence in the new world.
It's an intriguing and really, it's mostly important subject, that it's the differences in the development of the United States and the Latin American countries.
They all have the same influence, the same enlightenment influence in the 18th century, and yet, you know, the paths of development are so different, politically and economically and so on.
And of course, you begin with the fact that one is Spanish and one is English, but still I think there's a lot to be said.
I like to think of the library as the star of the resource and as the kinds of questions.
Do you think the library is doing what the Browns intended to do?
Yes.
Certainly what John Michael Brown intended to do, because this library was unified.